>> The Western lifestyle is
built on a fight or flight mode.
Everything is go, go, go.
This response disconnects
people from themselves.
>> It's about raising
people's awareness,
opening up their consciousness,
opening up their horizons.
>> My work day starts at 5:30
in the morning when I wake up.
And usually I'm going
a million miles an hour
until I fall into bed.
>> I'm a type 2 diabetic,
diagnosed about a year ago.
>> I lost my mother
two years ago.
>> I got up in the morning one
day and was kind of just going,
oh, god, I really
need some help.
>> I was shaking and
struggling to breathe.
>> The doctors and he gave me
a percentage of have a heart
attack.
And his answer was 18%,
but it should be 1%.
>> I went in for a very standard
eye surgery that went horribly
wrong.
>> I've been having cameras down
and off to the doctors and off
to hospitals.
>> The depression that
just comes, I just again,
just close off, and I
can't really function.
>> This place down in Thailand
says it can actually change
your head around, change
your inner space around.
>> I actually feel different.
It's so bizarre.
>> Heading for a retreat on an
island in the North China Sea,
Nick Knowles joins a group who
are all seeking the antidote
for the strains of modern life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
How will the gang cope with a
completely new way of living.
>> I think that some of the
participants didn't really know
what they were getting into.
>> It's almost cultish.
>> I think it's going
to be a challenge.
>> Will 28 days of detox and
alternative therapies be enough
to change their lives?
>> This is one kick ass detox.
>> Welcome to Thailand.
>> Previously on "The Retreat."
>> It's quite confusing when
he puts his hand in your mouth
and then all of a sudden
something else is less painful.
>> I mean, I asked if he could
levitate, and he said yes.
And he also said he
could walk on the water.
I seem to be able to
hear a little better,
both with my hearing
aid in and also without.
>> Actual pain and tension
is at this time has gone.
It's amazing.
>> It's like an acoustic inside.
So everybody starts humming.
>> If I'm completely
honest, I said yeah,
I'd sooner go to hell
than I'd go here.
>> Yeah, I'm not sure.
>> It's another morning
yoga session with Luke,
and it turns out to be
particularly profound for Nick.
>> Nick talked about--
like an out of body
experience today.
And from a yogic
point of view, they
talk about astral projection
and kind of leaving your body
and going somewhere else.
And I haven't
mentioned it because I
haven't experienced it.
So then Nick's
talking about that.
And him and Jules are just lying
down at the end of the class
casually talking about
chakras and astral projection
as though they've been
yogis for like lifetimes
or whatever their whole life.
And it's just madness, really.
>> An orangey golden color.
And mine is more not
rolling in the center of it.
>> Rolling into the center.
>> Yes.
>> This orange thing you saw.
>> Yeah.
>> You think you've
just done the same.
I'm not going to say I
did because I was like--
I was probably just a bit
dizzy from all that walking
this morning
>> Because it was weird because
when we have this over our eyes,
when I took this off,
I had a vivid golden--
behind my eyes.
>> Which you would think is
just the light coming in.
>> Yes.
>> Except it wasn't
because when it stopped,
the light was actually just how
it would be through your eyes.
>> I had exactly the same thing.
>> Yeah.
And is that what you
had the other day?
>> Same color, but
not the same thing.
When I had that the other
day, it came up, up through.
[LAUGHTER]
>> I think this is really weird.
It's the other week
where he goes--
>> I am in shock with all this.
>> No.
This is too freaky because I'm--
it might've passed
me because I was
slightly dizzy, because I did
that flipping great long walk--
that long walk this morning.
So OK, when I was doing that, I
was seeing, like, gold colors.
But you know when
you used to go,
put your mind in your left foot
or at the end of your left leg.
>> Yeah.
>> And then start to
move up through there.
Well, in the past, I've
been putting my mind there
and imagining little electric
things or anything going up
my leg to make this come down.
Today when I did it,
I put my mind there.
And it was dark green.
It was like it was shrouded.
My foot was suddenly shrouded,
like at the top of a mountain
in the dark, smoky color.
And there was a light
gold came onto my toes,
and then went again.
And I was trying to get
it back into my toe.
And it goes fighting it.
And it wouldn't burst
through the dark green.
And eventually, it did.
And I got so fed up with it, I
actually suddenly found myself
going outside and
going down and looking
at the bottom of my feet.
And then I thought, what
the hell's going on?
[LAUGHTER]
I'm looking at the bottom
of my feet, and freaked out.
[LAUGHTER]
>> And then couldn't
relax after that?
>> And it went again.
Suddenly, I was back inside
and thinking about trying
to put my mind in my feet.
But there was a moment
where I went, I saw this.
I'm going to have a look.
And I actually went around and
looked at the bottom of my feet,
and then could see
the bottom of my feet.
>> From a yogic point of
view, they talk about astral
projection.
But it's funny because
you two were just
talking about colors of chakras,
just lying there casually,
just like, oh,
yeah, I saw golds.
And I was just like--
>> That was why I was trying
to keep it quiet because I felt
such a pillock talking about it.
I was asking him what he saw
because there was a moment where
I was getting this super gold,
but not gold like a gold-gold,
like a sunset gold.
>> Like an orangey--
>> Yeah.
>> Like an orangey gold, yeah.
>> That's just ridiculous.
>> [LAUGHS]
>> Well, it is, isn't it?
It's just--
>> It's you on the turn.
That's all it is.
>> No, I'm just dizzy because
I've been in a long walk this
morning.
That's what it is.
>> Yeah.
That's what you've
put it down to.
But really, you're on
the turn because you've
been seeing your chakra colors,
and your spirit took your own.
>> This is like a Yogi juicer!
>> Yes, you are.
You need to go and have
Reiki this afternoon.
It's festering.
It's at the point--
>> My chakras are festering?
>> Yeah, they need to come out.
>> [LAUGHS]
>> Honestly, they're bubbling.
>> You're taking the
Mickey, don't you?
>> Well, yesterday, right--
>> You haven't had one yet.
>> --I felt like a blue
air bubble in my stomach.
And then that pulled
them all up tonight.
I think you're fighting it.
You just need to go with it.
>> The funny thing is, I
haven't mentioned anything about
the chakras once in
any of my classes.
I've tried to keep
it therapeutic.
But you guys have raised
it more than I have.
Jules is just radiant now.
He's just like all
this beaming smile.
And he looks lighter.
I don't know how to explain
that, but he looks lighter.
His energy is lighter, and
his posture has changed,
and it's incredible.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Milton is up
early as per usual.
But this time, it's
not the walking
that motivates his excursion.
>> And there he is, the proud
owner of his very own juice.
>> Proud owner of
my first juice.
And I'm just going to
look at it for a bit.
>> We're going to look
at you looking at it.
Now that's a good look.
Own it, Milts.
Yeah, that's it.
>> It's been tough.
I didn't think
it'd be that tough.
I've been all right, but
then certain times, you
get a little bit
of a mood swing.
So I was just wondering
what that was.
Speaking to other people,
they were just saying,
oh, because you're ain't eating.
It makes me weak at the knees.
>> Yeah.
>> But now I'm
going to taste it.
>> It's even there
for that stuff.
Oh, look at that.
Mm, mm, mm, mm, mm.
>> Feel better.
More energy.
You know what I mean?
And just get back on
the plant-based diet.
I think that's going
to be a good thing.
(SINGING) Hallelujah,
hallelujah.
[LAUGHTER]
That was a proper
Hallelujah moment.
>> (SINGING) His milkshake
brings all the guys to the yard,
and he's like, it's
better than yours.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Well done.
>> I can see why everyone was
salivating the last few days.
Cheers.
>> Cheers.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello.
>> Hello, hello, hello.
>> Oh, that smells delicious.
>> [CHUCKLES] Which one
would you have first,
chicken or the vegetable?
>> This is what-- this
taunts me every day.
>> In fact, I think would
go for the vegetable.
>> I think you
have to do veggie.
Oh, that's looking--
one sniff, please.
>> Mm.
In fact, I want the whole plate.
>> It's heavenly.
>> I know.
>> Listen.
I know this is a tough one.
All right, let's go.
>> [LAUGHS]
>> Temptation often calls
right at the end of a fast.
And Milton and
Cathy just managed
to hold off for their
official end at a restaurant
the night after.
>> Good evening, everybody!
>> Yay!
Good evening!
>> How are we?
Have we all had a great day?
Milton?
>> Good, all good.
Billy.
>> How are you feeling
for your first real meal?
>> Oh, I can't wait.
I need some food.
>> With Milton back
on solids at last,
he's finally caught up
with the rest of the gang.
And they all enjoy a vegan feast
together for the first time.
>> Roasted brown rice.
>> Here we go.
>> Yeah, let's do this.
I'm going to use hands.
>> In life, I think
you deserve this.
>> Really?
>> I like everything.
>> My sensory levels are just
shot up after basically eating
nothing.
It feels good.
>> Flexible.
>> It's fine.
>> Are you not
having your extra--?
>> You better take tomorrow off.
>> Ooh, look at that.
[CHATTER]
[LAUGHTER]
>> We just missed that.
[CHATTER]
>> Oh, nice day.
Went for a walk this morning.
It seemed that it was
really quick this morning.
So we're going to ramp it up
and maybe do another half hour
on top tomorrow because I
think we're just up to speed.
And this morning just
felt like nothing.
>> Yeah.
>> So I think Cathy's up for it.
And we're going to do a little
bit more time somewhere.
>> Nice.
>> Nick and Dalia discuss his
preconceptions about people who
undertake retreats.
>> Now, for me, you're
coming and seeing this.
It's an island
full of people that
appear to have
dropped out of society
and are living what you call
an alternative lifestyle
or what they would call
an alternative lifestyle.
Although the alternative
appears to have
a bit of a uniform and people
look the same, and it's a gang.
Not a gang, that's
the wrong word.
>> Tribe!
>> A tribe?
>> It's a tribe.
>> Tribe is a good word.
It is a tribe, though, isn't it?
>> Yeah.
>> And I'm not sure that me
sitting at home in London,
feeling stressed, that I'll
look at this tribe and think,
I want to be part of that tribe.
But I do think there's amazing
things in here that would help
everybody, not just hippies.
Do you know what I mean?
>> Actually, hippies have
quite an easy access to this,
even when they are back home.
And it's the people
that aren't hippies
that are working
very long hours, that
have three kids, that are
supporting a family, that really
actually need the
work being done.
>> And that's the difficulty,
is getting them to maybe look
at it.
Because I think a lot of
them, and I'm including myself
in this, are slightly
put off as well
by the whole spiritual sense
of there's all this other stuff
on top.
>> The feathers and fans?
>> Yeah, really.
Whereas actually at
the heart of it all,
I think there's
something amazing.
It's been amazing for me.
The detox has been
amazing for me physically.
Reiki and Feta haven't
really helped me,
but some of the guys in the
group that we've been in,
there's absolutely no doubt that
it's dramatically helped them.
It's working for people.
>> It really works, and
one person at a time.
And that person has
a shift or a change
or gets better from
whatever reason
they came here and then goes
back and tells their friends.
And then they shift, they
change in whichever way.
>> So why do we need this?
Why do we need this?
Why have we lost track so
much of how we feel inside?
>> I think their agenda.
People's agenda has
become more personal
rather than actually
caring for one another
and for Mother Earth.
Earth, it sustains
them and nourishes us
in a completely non-hippie way.
100% really, it's
very, very logical.
It's very logical that we cannot
sustain ourselves in the way
that we're living.
People that I see are
getting sicker and sicker,
even though their bank balance
is getting larger and larger.
And so what we learnt
when we were young,
that if we would have money,
then we would be happy,
just doesn't actually work.
>> Mm-hmm.
[WIND CHIMES CLINKING]
>> All right.
This should be a session
we've never done, ain't it?
>> (SINGING) Good
morning, good morning.
We danced the whole
night through.
>> We've come for
Reiki, intuition.
>> Reiki training.
>> Two days.
But our trainer's not here.
But that's OK.
>> All right, let's go.
>> Let's have it.
No we'll have a glass of
water because we just walked.
We've been sweating.
We need to rehydrate,
so our brains are fully
functioning for today.
>> Did you bring a pen?
>> No.
>> Oh.
>> The main purpose of
an attunement is to raise
the student's energy levels,
reconnecting them to their inner
selves.
>> During the attunement, the
most important thing is to just
relax.
You don't have to
do anything, really
just this feeling of
relaxing and surrendering
is the most important.
Everything else, I do.
>> At some point, I'm going to
guide you to bring your hands up
here.
And then at some point, your
hands will be like this.
You'll feel me stroking
your hands and doing this.
>> You can stay sitting with
your eyes closed for as long
as you need.
>> Some people cry,
some people feel sick.
Some people get
really light-headed.
Others get really heavy.
Some have their epiphanies.
OK, so close your eyes.
And as you inhale, you're
inhaling light into your lungs.
And just sense or
imagine that that light
seeps into the center of the
chest, your heart chakra.
>> Each Reiki teacher uses a
set of unique hand movements
and signs written in the air.
These are to help guide
the student to an increased
sensitivity or what they
call a higher vibration.
The result is supposed to
be that the student becomes
open to the power of the
universal life force,
to heal the physical
and mental self.
[WIND CHIMES CLINKING]
>> What do you feel?
>> Really--
>> High.
Yeah.
[CHUCKLES]
>> Yeah, I also had indigo
right in the beginning,
which was really beautiful.
And then a major hot flash.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Yeah, just sit
there for a bit.
Do you need anything?
>> Everyone has had a distinctly
different experience with
the attunement, and it seems
to have had a negative effect
on Billy.
>> It's like those gloopy lamps?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah?
>> The ones from the '90s.
>> Yeah.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Ann, would you like to share?
>> I think it was just
very calming and relaxing.
And just the heat, just feel
heat, which just felt nice.
And I thought I felt vibration
in this side, but I wasn't sure.
So yeah, that was good.
Good.
>> Where is it hurting?
Is it just your entire belly?
>> Yeah, and ran
across to the back.
I don't know if that's
because I'm sitting.
I don't know if it's the banana.
[SIGHS] No, I don't think so.
>> Billy thinks that it's the
banana he ate for breakfast,
making him feel sick.
>> [GROANS]
>> What did you have yesterday?
Could it have been-- it could
be that mass amount, you know?
I think it's eating spicy
food after you've fasted.
I don't think it's
worked for you.
You need to have a
bit of a lie-down
after you've been in there,
and have some hammock time.
>> Physiological reactions are
apparently common with Reiki
attunements, but stomach upsets
are also common in Thailand.
Whatever it is, Billy takes
to his bed for five days.
Cathy, however, is beginning
to find something in the Reiki.
>> I never know if I'm
making it up or not.
But I felt like I got hit by
two balls that came through me,
you know.
The second one was
stronger, but I don't know.
You never know if you're making
that up or if you're not.
>> I know that I can feel it.
But it's just I
can't feel it now.
>> It's different
with, I think, again,
sittings and cameras and you
have everyone all around you.
>> Yeah.
That's the difficulty, I
also think, conscious of it.
>> Yeah.
>> Just the filming, and it
stops when it seems it feels
like it stops me.
>> It stops you from
experiencing it.
>> Yeah.
>> Julian feels that,
unlike his private session,
when he saw light
coming up through him,
he was too conscious of the
cameras to really let himself
go.
And he thinks it didn't work.
It's another perfect
day, and some of the gang
are off to visit a monk to
have a long conversation
about nothing, thinking
and being nothing.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Are you ready to go?
>> Ready.
[CHATTER]
>> Hello.
>> Hello, everyone.
>> [CHUCKLES] I'm Orlon.
I'm Orlan, Phra Olan.
Phra it's mean a monk.
Monk, yeah, little monk.
[LAUGHS] I'm little monk.
Not normal monk.
Let's no matter.
So nice to meet you, everybody.
First welcome to the temple.
My story is that a family
man with 3 children.
I lived here for a long time.
I've been married to
a Swiss woman before,
and I lived in
Switzerland for 13 years.
Yourself, you don't
want to be bad people.
You know what is bad
and what is good.
But sometime the ego takes
you to make something bad.
When you hear
something, just let it.
It's not your problem.
You know, you just hear, you
hear, be at peace with them.
Be peace.
Not stressed.
You should live relaxed.
>> If I watch all my thoughts
go by, I will end up sitting
on an island here and not
looking after anybody.
It's my job and responsibility
to look after people.
>> Yes.
You have to first
look after yourself.
You are just thinking
about taking care everyone,
but you are in trouble.
So come back and take
care of yourself first.
>> It's a nice idea to
go through life smiling,
but it's very difficult
sometimes when there is
something burning inside you.
Meditation is not going
to get to it, is it?
>> No.
>> You can smile, but you are
pretending to smile if something
inside is hurting.
>> I understand this the same.
Me also have many
stone inside me before.
[LAUGHS] Very heavy.
Smile, but only mouth,
it's not from heart.
But now how to empty them and
to be free to smile from heart.
>> But how?
>> Yeah.
>> Walk for three
hours in meditation.
>> Yeah.
When you go to meditation,
you know you are free.
Aware, but after 10 minutes, I
am living in the whole world.
You know, you start to be peace.
But when we start to walk
and you be aware, every time,
every moment you feel your
body, you stay by your body,
you take this and you can see
the thinking and everything,
it passes through.
Real benefit when
you can walk first.
>> All I got from that was
somebody being really selfish
about themselves, following
their own waste because.
He owns a bloody
great hotel, he's
able to step aside and leave
his family for two years
and go and follow his
own selfish interests.
I don't see how he gets
to lecture me on what part
of my life I'm missing out on.
>> This is why we have
to learn together.
I would like to invite
everybody to come and enjoy
walking meditation,
about 3.5 hours to walk,
and then you will
understand about this.
>> Perceiving Nick's skepticism,
Orlon has invited them all back
in the next few days for
a rare opportunity to get
into the world of a Buddhist
monk in a 3.5 hour walking
meditation.
Next time on the retreat.
>> It was in the warm-up.
And yeah, where we
tapping, and we were just
waking up the
meridians of the body
and getting the energy flowing.
And Nick walked off.
I find that quite rude.
>> We've given up sugar,
caffeine, alcohol, meat, dairy,
wheat.
>> Yeah.
>> Cigarettes.
>> The ciggies.
>> Yeah, cigarettes,
everything for a month.
>> Yeah.
>> Just can't relax.
I can't get--
I'm not enjoying
what we're doing.
>> No, no, no.
>> [LAUGHS]
[CHATTER]
>> I'm dead.
I'm all done.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Before attempting any of the
detox techniques or practices
demonstrated in the retreat,
you are advised to seek out
your doctor's advice.